hi this is Andy Carlson owner of two Ace
Hardware stores in Denver Colorado and
today we're going to talk a little bit
about eliminating odors in your
wood-burning fireplace and how to clean
your fireplace so one of the big sources
of odor in the fireplace is actually the
ash that comes from the burning so this
fireplace we're looking at right here
there's our there's a lot of ash in
there and you want to make sure you get
that cleaned out
that's your first priority because
that's going to add to the odor once
you've done the cleaning there's a few
things you can do that will further
eliminate odors from the fireplace one
of the simplest you can do just with
some household items just get some small
bowls like this and some regular
household vinegar you want white vinegar
and just pour the vinegar into the bowls
about half full and you just want to
place these around the fireplace area
the vinegar will actually absorb some of
the odor there's a several different
commercially available products that you
can buy as well that are specific for
eliminating odors and those work very
well in your fireplace so the first
would be an odor eliminating spray like
this citrus base spray you're basically
just going to spray this around the
inside of the fireplace and that will
have the effect of eliminating some of
the odors and then another thing that
works really well are odor neutralizing
beads or gels so this these are they
look like little fish eggs and you're
just basically going to open that up
peel back the top and set that right
down in the middle of the fireplace and
just leave it sit there until the till
the odor starts to be absorbed probably
a few days all right before you'll
you'll notice a big difference so it's
really easy to eliminate the odors in
the fireplace takes a little bit of time
but it can make your house much more
pleasant and comfortable after that that
Ash smell is gone so once you've got
odors eliminated in the fireplace one
thing you need to think about it also is
cleaning it and one of the easiest ways
to clean the fireplace yourself is to
use what's called a sweeping log these
look just like the
logs you might buy at the grocery store
but it's a special kind of log and it'll
say sweeping log on the package when you
get it you open it up and you just put
it inside your fireplace and then you're
just going to light it right inside the
package so you don't unwrap it you don't
do anything to take it out of there so
you just get it lit and then you're just
going to let it burn all the way through
there's special chemicals inside that
log that are going to actually sweep the
chimney and remove some of the creosote
that builds up inside the chimney so
these work in fireplaces they work in
wood-burning stoves it's a great way to
during the season keep your fireplace
clean the manufacturers recommend you
use one of those about every 60 times
you use your fireplace so the Sandy
Carlson Denver Colorado talking about
how to eliminate odors in your fireplace
and how to clean it so hopefully you've
learned a few tips that will help you
out as you use your fireplace this
season